Add initial HTML-Markdown conversion section of guide (#8)
cw118/translated-content-guide: README.md

---

## HTML-Markdown conversion

On the en-US (mdn/content) side, all files have been converted to Markdown with the exception of the Tools section, as there was a consensus to keep the latter in HTML (that is, to **not** convert it). As for locales (mdn/translated-content), HTML to Markdown conversion (`h2m`) is either in-progress or completed (thus far, only the French locale has been fully converted to Markdown).

---

### The conversion process

Long-time contributor, reviewer, and French locale maintainer **SphinxKnight** has created an [extensive guide to converting translated-content to Markdown](https://github.com/mdn/translated-content/discussions/2474). Definitely give it a read, especially if you plan on converting entire sections at once.

> 

Author: Clarify the two approaches for `h2m` conversion

```suggestion

There are two approaches for HTML-Markdown conversion. One is to convert entire sections at once; the other is to convert one/a few documents at a time while updating them vs. their en-US counterparts (this would fix outdated content and convert the file or files).

```

> Here's an extremely basic and brief overview of what you need for the conversion process.

Author: ```suggestion
Here's an extremely basic and brief overview of the HTML to Markdown conversion process.
```

> What you need:

Author: ```suggestion
What you'll need (see the individual repos for setup instructions):
```

- A local copy/fork of the [mdn/yari repo](https://github.com/mdn/yari), where the `h2m` conversion tool can be found
- A local copy/fork of the [mdn/translated-content repo (and any prerequisites needed to work on it)](https://github.com/mdn/translated-content)

> Basic overview of the conversion process:

Author: ```suggestion
A **basic** overview of the conversion process (please see [the guide](https://github.com/mdn/translated-content/discussions/2474) for complete and detailed instructions):
```

- Prepare the HTML content for conversion: ensure it results in a "clean" build and a "clean" report from the conversion tool
- Review the preparation PRs (it's recommended to sample at least 10-20 files for especially large PRs, such as those modifying over 100 files) and merging, **provided all CI checks pass**
- Convert from HTML to Markdown in two commits (do **not** squash these commits!):
  - The first commit should rename the file(s) from `*.html` to `*.md` (change the file extension from HTML to Markdown)
  - The second commit should convert HTML code to Markdown
  - ***IMPORTANT: do NOT squash the renaming and conversion commits!***

>   - **Watch out for conflicts with other commits/PRs/issues — these should be "frozen"** (see SphinxKnight's guide for more information)

Author: Making the entire (note) link text to emphasize that the reader should see the guide

```suggestion
  - **Watch out for conflicts with other commits/PRs/issues — these should be "frozen"** ([see SphinxKnight's guide for more information](https://github.com/mdn/translated-content/discussions/2474))
```
